WIP: Cadence Style Guide (#3)
onflow/cadence-style-guide: cadence-style-guide.md

# Cadence Style Guide
## Table of contents
1. [Indentation](#indentation)
1. [Line length](#line-length)
1. [Comments](#comments)
1. [Whitespace between code lines](#whitespace-between-code-lines)
1. [Declaring variables and constants](#whitespace-between-code-lines)
1. [Bracket spaces](#bracket-spaces)
1. [Panic messages](#panic-messages)

> 1. [Naming and capitalization](#naming-and-capitalization)
> ## Indentation
> Use 4 spaces per indentation level.
> Prefer spaces over tabs as indentation method, mixing them should be avoided.

Reviewer: Add line breaks between Markdown elements, to make it easier to read and edit:

```suggestion
1. [Naming and capitalization](#naming-and-capitalization)

## Indentation

Use 4 spaces per indentation level.
Prefer spaces over tabs as indentation method, mixing them should be avoided.
```

## Line length

> A line length of 80 characters is recommended for Cadence. This could be particularly challenging when writing capability-related lines, for instance:

Reviewer: I agree the guide should recommend a reasonable maximum line length, but [we're not writing code on punch cards anymore](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/148677/why-is-80-characters-the-standard-limit-for-code-width). Maybe something like 100?

```cadence
letResourceRef = account.getCapability(ContractName.SomePathName).borrow<&SomeResource{ContractName.InterfaceName}>()
```

> This generic line of code that can be found in many transactions that need to borrow a reference to a certain object from a capability is 118 characters long by its own without any indentation. Keeping this line readable should be an objective of any Cadence developer. There are some simple patterns that could be observed in order to accomplish this:

Reviewer: Add line breaks after logical ends, i.e. put logical parts of the paragraph on separate lines:

```suggestion
The following line of code is an example of code that can be found in many transactions.
It borrows a reference to a certain object from a capability, and is 118 characters long without any indentation. 
Keeping this line readable should be an objective of any Cadence developer. 
There are some simple practices that should be followed in order to accomplish this:
```

> + Prefer to always break the line before the `borrow` call.

Reviewer: `+` is uncommen in Markdown lists, prefer to use `*` or `-`

```cadence

> letResourceRef = account.getCapability(ContractName.SomePathName)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let resourceRef = account.getCapability(ContractName.SomePathName)
```

                  .borrow<&SomeResource{ContractName.InterfaceName}>()
```
+ If indentation or a long path name makes the "getCapability" line go further than 80 characters an additional line break can be included
```cadence

> letResourceRef = account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let resourceRef = account
```

                  .getCapability(ContractName.SomeAbsurdlyLongForSomeReasonPathName)
                  .borrow<&SomeResource{ContractName.InterfaceName}>()
```
Always keep those concatenated function calls indented from the object they are being called from.
## Comments
Comments are a vital part of smart contracts, allowing users to easily understand what they are getting involved with. 
### High level documentation at the begining of files (contracts, transactions and scripts)

> Top Level comments and comments for types, fields, events, and functions should use `///` (three slashes) because [the cadence docs generating tool](https://github.com/onflow/cadence/tree/master/tools/docgen) picks up three slash comments to auto-generate docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Top-level comments and comments for types, fields, events, and functions should use `///` (three slashes) because [the Cadence documentation generator](https://github.com/onflow/cadence/tree/master/tools/docgen) uses them to differentiate between normal comments and documentation comments.
```

### Commenting functions
## Whitespace between code lines
## Declaring variables and constants
## Bracket spaces
## Panic messages
## Naming and capitalization

> ### Contracts
> Contract and contract interfaces names should always follow PascalCase, for instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Types
Type names should always follow CamelCase and start with an uppercase letter, for instance:
```

```cadence
pub contract ExampleToken
```

> ### Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fields

Field names should always follow camelCase, and start with a lowercase letter, for instance:

```

```cadence
pub var totalSupply
```
```cadence

> pub var VaultStoragePath

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pub let VaultStoragePath
```

Reviewer 2: I think rule here is related to being constant, but I am not sure.

```
// Different rule for regular fields than for path fields?
### Functions

> Function names should always follow camelCase, for instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Function names should always follow camelCase, and start with a lowercase letter, for instance:
```

> # Cadence <- Style Guide

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Cadence Style Guide
```

## Table of contents

> 1. [Identation](#identation)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. [Indentation](#indentation)
```

1. [Line length](#line-length)

> 1. [Comments](#comments)

Reviewer 3: Looks like the numbers aren't increasing properly here

Author: It's a markdown feature, you just put 1 before each line and it will handle the numeration properly
<img width="392" alt="Captura de Pantalla 2022-07-28 a las 19 42 47" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6607145/181602965-ec9d79ae-3538-4563-aaf2-54b518a2ef44.png">

1. [Whitespace between code lines](#whitespace-between-code-lines)
1. [Declaring variables and constants](#whitespace-between-code-lines)
1. [Bracket spaces](#bracket-spaces)
1. [Panic messages](#panic-messages)
1. [Naming and capitalization](#naming-and-capitalization)

> ## Identation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Indentation
```

Author: well, I was actually pronouncing that badly also in Spanish (Indentación, not Identación xD)

Use 4 spaces per indentation level.
Prefer spaces over tabs as indentation method, mixing them should be avoided.
## Line length

> A line lenght of 80 characters is recomended for Cadence. This could be particurally challenging when facing capability-related lines, for instance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A line length of 80 characters is recommended for Cadence. This could be particularly challenging when writing capability-related lines, for instance:
```

```cadence
letResourceRef = account.getCapability(ContractName.SomePathName).borrow<&SomeResource{ContractName.InterfaceName}>()
```

> This generic line of code that could be found in a pretty similar way in lots of transactions that need to borrow a reference to a certain object from a capability it's 118 characters long by its own without any identation. Keeping this lines readable should be a main objective of any Cadence developer. There are some simple patterns that could be observed in order to accomplish this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This generic line of code that can be found in many transactions that need to borrow a reference to a certain object from a capability is 118 characters long by its own without any indentation. Keeping this line readable should be an objective of any Cadence developer. There are some simple patterns that could be observed in order to accomplish this:
```

> + Prefer allways to break the line before the borrow call.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ Prefer to always break the line before the `borrow` call.
```

```cadence
letResourceRef = account.getCapability(ContractName.SomePathName)
                  .borrow<&SomeResource{ContractName.InterfaceName}>()
```

> + If identation or a long path name makes the "getCapability" line go further than 80 characters an additional line break can be included

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ If indentation or a long path name makes the "getCapability" line go further than 80 characters an additional line break can be included
```

```cadence
letResourceRef = account
                  .getCapability(ContractName.SomeAbsurdlyLongForSomeReasonPathName)
                  .borrow<&SomeResource{ContractName.InterfaceName}>()
```

> Keep allways those concatenated function calls idented from the object they are being called from.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Always keep those concatenated function calls indented from the object they are being called from.
```

> Keep allways those concatenated function calls idented from the object they are being called from.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Always keep those concatenated function calls indented from the object they are being called from.
```

## Comments

> Comments are a vital part of smart contracts, allowing users to easily understand what they are getting involve with. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Comments are a vital part of smart contracts, allowing users to easily understand what they are getting involved with. 
```

### High level documentation at the begining of files (contracts, transactions and scripts)

> Top Level comments and comments for types, fields, events, and functions should use `///` (three slashes) because there is a cadence docs generating tool that picks up three slash comments to auto-generate docs.

Reviewer 3: Can you link to the docgen section in the cadence repo here?

### Commenting functions
Functions should be commented with a:
  * Description
  * Parameter descriptions (unless it is obvious)

>   * Return value descriptions (unless it is obvious)

Reviewer 3: This should be removed from here and created as an issue in this repo so we can discuss it

Regular comments within functions should only use two slashes (`//`)
## Whitespace between code lines
## Declaring variables and constants
## Bracket spaces
## Panic messages
## Naming and capitalization
### Contracts

> Contract and contract interfaces names should allways follow PascalCase, for instance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Contract and contract interfaces names should always follow PascalCase, for instance:
```

```cadence
pub contract ExampleToken
```
### Fields
```cadence
pub var totalSupply
```
```cadence
pub var VaultStoragePath
```
// Different rule for regular fields than for path fields?
### Functions

> Functions names should allways follow camelCase, for instance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Function names should always follow camelCase, for instance:
```
